Exception Handling Section (#137)
OpenLiberty/guide-rest-intro: README.adoc

Check out the service that you created at the
http://localhost:9080/LibertyProject/System/properties[^] URL. 

// =================================================================================================
// Exception Handling
// =================================================================================================

== Exception Handling

If a resource doesn't exist or the service experiences an exception, the client will receive either an empty response or an HTML error page respectively.
A client should not receive either of these.

> Clients should receive JSON responses. 

Reviewer: I would rephrase this section.  I'm not sure that the client will always receive an empty response or an HTML error page.  And ideally, the client would receive the error response in the same MediaType (MIME type) that they would receive a normal response in (i.e. it could be text, xml, etc.).

Maybe something like this:

Most application developers will want to ensure that when an exception occurs in the application (such as the client requesting a resource that does not exist or posting an invalid resource, etc.) that it is handled consistently and in a way that allows the client to fully understand the failure (i.e. bad input, server outage, etc.). This can be accomplished using the exception handling mechanisms in JAX-RS such as sending a `Response` via a `WebApplicationException` (or subclass) or by using `ExceptionMapper` providers.

> This will be handled using an `ExceptionMapper` which maps exceptions to responses and builds appropriate JSON payloads. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses an `ExceptionMapper` which maps exceptions to responses and builds appropriate JSON payloads. 
```

It contains fields for the error code and error message. 

[role="code_command hotspot file=1", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `GenericExceptionMapper` class.#
`src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/rest/exceptions/GenericExceptionMapper.java`
----

GenericExceptionMapper.java
[source, Java, linenums, role="code_column hide_tags=comment"]
----
include::finish/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/rest/exceptions/GenericExceptionMapper.java[]
----

When JAX-RS sees any `Throwable`, it will search for a matching `ExceptionMapper` interface that has been marked with the [hotspot=provider file=1]`@Provider` annotation. 
It will pass the `Throwable` to the [hotspot=toResponse file=1]`toResponse()` method to construct a response using the [hotspot file=0]`ErrorResponse` class.

The [hotspot file=1]`GenericExceptionMapper` class will be used for any `Throwable` that does not have a more specific `ExceptionMapper` interface implemented. 

[role="code_command hotspot file=2", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `NotFoundExceptionMapper` class.#
`src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/rest/exceptions/NotFoundExceptionMapper.java`
----

> NotFoundExceptionMapper.java

Reviewer: We discussed in slack that it might be better to use a different exception type here - ideally an application-specific, business exception (like `WidgetNotFoundException`) since `NotFoundException` is a subclass of `WebApplicationException` - and it could hold it's own `Response` object (and thus doesn't need to be mapped).

----

The [hotspot file=0]`ErrorResponse` class will define the JSON contents of our response. 
It contains fields for the error code and error message. 

[role="code_command hotspot file=1", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `GenericExceptionMapper` class.#
`src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/rest/exceptions/GenericExceptionMapper.java`
----

GenericExceptionMapper.java
[source, Java, linenums, role="code_column hide_tags=comment"]
----
include::finish/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/rest/exceptions/GenericExceptionMapper.java[]
----

When JAX-RS sees any `Throwable`, it will search for a matching `ExceptionMapper` interface that has been marked with the [hotspot=provider file=1]`@Provider` annotation. 
It will pass the `Throwable` to the [hotspot=toResponse file=1]`toResponse()` method to construct a response using the [hotspot file=0]`ErrorResponse` class.

The [hotspot file=1]`GenericExceptionMapper` class will be used for any `Throwable` that does not have a more specific `ExceptionMapper` interface implemented. 

[role="code_command hotspot file=2", subs="quotes"]
----
#Create the `PropertyNotFoundExceptionMapper` class.#

> `src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/rest/exceptions/NotFoundExceptionMapper.java`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/rest/exceptions/PropertyNotFoundExceptionMapper.java`
```

----

> NotFoundExceptionMapper.java

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PropertyNotFoundExceptionMapper.java
```
